{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12320\viewh17220\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\b\fs52 \cf0 Project Zero\

\i\b0\fs24 An Introduction to Programming on the Lego Mindstorms NXT
\i0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\b\fs52 \cf0 Student Cheat Sheet\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf0 Basic JBrick Setup \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 On your computer, locate the JBrick program and open it. Once opened, you will have to set up your compiler in the Preferences window. You can open up the Preferences window from the toolbar at the top, the Edit drop down menu, or by pressing Control/Command + R. \
\
In the Preference menu. there is a box called NBC Compiler Location. If there isn\'92t already a default compiler set, select the Browse button. In the JBrick package, a file called Compilers should be included. \
	If you are using a Mac, select the compiler called just nbc and then select OK.\
	If you are using a PC, select the compiler called nbc.exe and then select OK. \
Once you have selected a compiler, select OK in the Preferences Window.\
\
Save your new file in the JBrick Student Activity Folder. 
\b Your program will not compile otherwise.\

\b0 \
You are now ready to start programming!!
\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\fs52 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf0 Notes \

\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\fs24 Make sure that you have connected your Brick to the computer with the USB cable provided\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs36 {\listtext	\'95	}
\fs24 If no Brick is recognized, try selecting Tools > Find Brick in the drop down, other wise ask your teacher for assistance\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs36 {\listtext	\'95	}
\fs24 Make sure your file is saved in the correct place and with the .nxc ending\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs36 {\listtext	\'95	}
\fs24 Make sure there are no errors by compiling before you download to the Brick
\fs36 \
}